Aim of the project:
                  This project aims to detect the fire especially in indoor environment
This is a prototype code that successfully demonstrates the working of a computer vision
based fire detection and alarm system that can be implemented on large scale for venues 
like malls, schools, hospitals, hotels etc.

Abstract:
         There are three code files, one is fully hardware oriented present in the base
folder. The second one inlcudes only raspberry pi while the third code file is solely
software based that uses camera of your system. Since the other two files dont have
hardware, alarm system is only implemented in the code file "fire_det_and_alarm.py"
present in the base folder. The intended program takes live feed of the room from the
pi Camera of raspberry pi and detects fire and draws a colored rectangle around its
vicinity as an indication that fire is detected. Shows respective message on console
and triggers the alarm system (causing attached led to glow).

Working:
        Following are the steps that show the working of this project:
1-Necessary imports are made i.e., cv2, RPi.GPIO, sleep etc.
2-"fire_cascade" variable is initialized that uses the xml file. It is necessary for the
  xml file to be passed as parameters of CascadeClassifier in order to detect fire.
3-Variable of camera in initialized to start capturing live feed.
4-Loop is introduced that continuoues to take feed from camera until the key "q" is pressed.
5-The feed is converted into grayscale in order for the camera to distinguish between fire
  and background more accurately and detect the fire with more ease.
6-The fire is being detected continuously by fire_cascade.detectMultiScale.
7-On the event of fire detection, a coloured rectangle is drawn around it to show that the
  fire is detected and print the respective message on console.
8-After detection a signal is sent to GPIO pin number 8 of the raspberry pi (shown in schematic
  diagram as well). The led is caused to blink for a while and the frame in which fire was
  detected is paused for the intended purposes. After the alarm is finished its iteration, the
  live is resumed again.
9-"q" is pressed to end the loop and as well as our program.

